# Digital Heritage Item Metadata Fields

This article provides detail for each of the Digital Heritage Item metadata fields. All the information here is presented in the helper text within the Digital Heritage Item edit/creation screen. 

## Mukurtu Essentials

- Title: A short, descriptive name for the digital heritage item. The title does not have to be unique but should give users useful information about the item when browsing or searching.
- Cultural protocols: Cultural protocols provide users appropriate access to content. They are listed under the community to which they belong and can only be viewed by protocol members. All content must belong to at least one cultural protocol.
- Sharing setting: For content with multiple protocols assigned, sharing settings help to determine a content item's level of access. Any is the less restrictive setting as it means that the content can be shared with people belonging to any one or more of the protocols selected. All is more restrictive as users must belong to all the selected protocols to view the collection. 
- Category: Categories are high-level descriptive terms that group digital heritage items together and help users browse and discover digital heritage items. Categories are unique to each site and reflect the scope of the items included. One set of categories is used to describe all digital heritage items within the site. Each digital heritage item must belong to at least one category.
- Media assets: Media assets are the core element of digital heritage items and can be images, documents, video, or audio files. Digital heritage items can include more than one media asset. Media assets are not required for digital heritage items.
- Summary: This field provides a brief description of your digital heritage item. The summary is displayed with the digital heritage item teaser when browsing, and can help distinguish between items with similar or identical titles. This field is limited to 255 characters. Other fields allow for longer, more in-depth description. 
- Creator: A Creator can be a person or people, a clan, tribe, or cultural group, or an organization that is primarily responsible for providing the essential knowledge or labor that goes into making a digital heritage item or media asset. For example, the Creator field could list who designed or made a basket, the knowledge holders who provided the information for a book or the book’s author or illustrator, or the singers, songwriters, dancers, or performers who bring to life cultural materials. This field can be formatted as `Last, First`, `First Last`, `Last, "Nickname" First` or any other format that makes sense for your organization. 
- Contributor: A Contributor can be a person, people, clan, tribal nation, community group or organization who aided in making the content of a digital heritage item or media asset. This could be the person who wrote, compiled, or illustrated a book or recorded a song, the people who edited or produced a film, or who collaborated or consulted on a project. This field can be formatted as `Last, First`, `First Last`, `Last, "Nickname" First` or any other format that makes sense for your organization. 
- Original date: The date associated with the digital heritage item, if known. Acceptable formats are `YYYY`, `YYYY-MM`, or `YYYY-MM-DD`.
- Date description: Use the *Date Description* field when a strictly formatted date is not known or appropriate to refer to the date the media asset was made, written, recorded, or filmed. Some examples of approximate timeframes or circa dates can include `Summer YYYY` or `circa 1800s`.  

## Mukurtu Core

- Cultural narrative: The cultural narrative field is used to add historical or social context, expert community knowledge, community stories, and other relevant context to the digital heritage item. This is generally information that is community specific. For example, if the item is a basket, this field may contain a narrative from the basket­maker about their technique, or it may tell a story contrasting how the baskets were used by previous generations and how they are used today.
- Traditional knowledge: The traditional knowledge field is used to add in-­depth community-specific knowledge about the digital heritage item. It is often used to provide information of social, spiritual, or esoteric significance. For example, if the item is a basket, this field may contain community, tribe, or clan-specific knowledge about the significance of design that is not widely known or that is specific that that community.
- Description: The *description* field can include physical characteristics (i.e. photograph, manuscript, newspaper clipping), content information (i.e. what is depicted, content of text), and any other generally relevant information. 

## Permissions and Rights

- Labels and Notices
  - Local Contexts projects: Local Contexts projects from the Local Contexts Hub. Local Contexts Projects describe the context where Traditional Knowledge Labels and Notices are being applied and house the label content. Projects must be configured at [Local Contexts](https://localcontexts.org/) before they can be applied to content within a Mukurtu site. Once a project is configured and Traditional Knowledge Labels and Notices created for the project, the project can be added to a Mukurtu site and labels applied site-wide or to individual pieces of content. To learn more about Local Contexts Projects, visit [Local Contexts](https://localcontexts.org/).
  - Local Contexts Labels and Notices: Local Contexts Labels and Notices from the Local Contexts Hub. Traditional Knowledge (TK) Labels are non-legal, social and educational tags that Indigenous communities can use to add information about access, use, and attribution of public domain and/or third-party owned content. TK labels can be used alongside either traditional copyright or Creative Commons’ licenses. Labels must first be configured as a Local Contexts project before they can be applied to content within a Mukurtu site. To learn more about TK Labels and Notices, visit [Local Contexts](https://localcontexts.org/).
- Citing Indigenous Elders and Knowledge Keepers
  - Name of the Elder or Knowledge Keeper: The individual's name(s). The author should ensure that the name appears according to the Knowledge Keeper's or community's preferences and include their appropriate title or status. 
  - Nation or Community: The Knowledge Keeper's Nation or community. This refers to the Indigenous nation/community that holds this knowledge and connects the Knowledge Keeper to their nation/community. Be as specific as possible.
  - Treaty Territory: Territories that hold treaties with the Knowledge Keeper's nation/community. Use only if applicable, such as for oral histories regarding treaties and land rights. 
  - City or Community the live in: Knowledge Keepers may live in a place other than where their knowledge originated. Use this field if they would like to acknowledge the place, nation, or community where they reside.
  - A Brief Description or Title of the Teaching: This field may be used to describe the knowledge and its' provenance, (i.e. "Creation Story as told to me by my grandfather who heard it from his father,") or any other description or classification the Knowledge Keeper would like to include. 
  - Date: The date the communication to place. Be as specific as possible. Acceptable date formats are YYYY, YYYY-MM, or YYYY-MM-DD.
- Rights
  - Rights and Usage: Enter a statement in the *Rights and Usage* field about who holds the legal rights to the digital heritage item, media asset, or presented knowledge. Consider adding contact information if the rights holder should be contacted for permission to use, reproduce, circulate, reference, or cite the digital heritage item.
  - Rights Statements: These are pre-formatted rights statements. For more information, visit [rightsstatement.org](https://rightsstatements.org/en/).
- Licensing Options
  - Creative Commons Licenses: Creative Commons licenses are an extension of Copyright that allow a copyright holder to specify the ways in which their work may be altered, shared, and used. For more information on Creative Commons licensing, visit [creativecommons.org]("https://creativecommons.org/").

## Additional Metadata

- Format: The format of the digital heritage item. Format is the specific physical or digital manifestation of the digital heritage item, including physical format `pamphlet`, `glass slide`, `open reel`, duration or extent ``90 minutes`, `20 pages`, dimensions `4x6"`, `12x6x8cm`, digital filetype `PDF`, `JPG`, `MP3`, `MP4`, or other details as needed.
- Type: The nature, genre, or function of the media asset or digital heritage item. Examples include `Image`, `Text`, `Sound`, or `Video`.
- Identifier: A unique, unambiguous reference to your digital heritage item or media asset. Identifiers are often provided by the contributing institution or organization so the original item can be located. Examples can include call numbers or accession numbers. 
- Keywords: Keywords are terms used to describe content to ensure that the item will be discoverable when searching or browsing. They are more flexible and specific than categories. Consider adding 3-5 keywords to your collection by selecting the "Add another item" button to add additional keywords fields. This field feeds into the keywords taxonomy.
- Language: The language or languages used in the digital heritage item or media asset. This includes text, audio, video. This field feeds into the language taxonomy.
- Location
  - Map points: Map points provides an interactive mapping tool that allows users to identify multiple locations within the content, and provide individual labels for each location. The available map point types are single point markers, paths, polygons, and rectangles. This location data is used in the map-based browse views, and is displayed on content pages. The data is stored in a GeoJSON format.
  - Location description: Provides a text or media reference to a geographical location that is impossible or inadvisable to pinpoint on a map. This can be useful if the location should remain private, if the location no longer exists, or if the location was described in a way that makes rendering it on a modern map challenging. Location description can be used independently of other location fields, and is a full HTML field that supports text, audio, images, and video.
  - Location (taxonomy): This field creates location based taxonomic terms.
- Source: Source provides a reference to a resource, collection, or institution from where the Digital Heritage Item or Media Asset is contributed or originated. Examples include collections (e.g., “McWhorter Collection”), institutions (e.g.,: “Library of Congress, American Folklife Center), or donors (e.g.,: “Donated by John Smith”).
- Publisher: A publisher can be a person, organization, or service responsible for publishing the digital heritage item or media asset.
- External links: Additional links can be added to a digital heritage item. This is most commonly used if the item is available elsewhere online and you want to direct users to that record or website. 
  - URL: This must be an external URL such as `https://example.com`.
  - Link text: This is the text that will display on your page as the link.
- Subject - The subject is the main topic or topics of the digital heritage item. They can be tailored to meet the needs of your site or derived from existing controlled vocabularies such as Library of Congress Subject Headings or Getty Art and Architecture Thesaurus. 
- Transcription: Transcription is a plain text field used to provide a text transcription of an audio or video recording, or of text in an image or document. Including a transcription allows the text to be discoverable when searching for digital heritage items.
- People:  The people field may be used to identify people identifiable in a photograph, people speaking in an audio recording, present in a video, or referenced in a document. The People field is a way to identify people that may have been left out of the record because they were not a Creator or Contributor.

## Relations

- Related content: Digital heritage items can be related to other items, dictionary words, collections, and other site content when there is a close connection between those items, or simply to guide users from one to another. Some examples include multiple photos of a single building, similar versions of a photograph or document, or multi-part video compilations. Another way related content is used is to include dictionary words that describe, contextualize, appear in, or are otherwise connected to the digital heritage item. Previews of related content items display at the bottom of the digital heritage item. One digital heritage item can be related to multiple items. The relationship between a digital heritage item and other content is bi-directional. 
