---
tags: 
    - media
    - metadata
---
# Media Upload Instructions by Media Type

!!! roles "User roles"
	Protocol Steward, Contributor, Community Record Steward, Curator, Language Steward, Language Contributor 

Mukurtu supports different types of media, including audio files, SoundCloud links, documents, external embeds, image files, remote video, and video files. Most media types have unique metadata fields and other requirements to add them to your media library. This article provides step-by-step instructions on how to upload each media type.

Media can be uploaded from your dashboard or when adding content. This article focuses on uploading media from your dashboard. Instructions on for uploading media when you create content can be found here **MAKE AN ARTICLE FOR THIS!!!**

## Audio files

The following fields are required.

1. To upload audio files, navigate to your dashboard. Select the **Audio** link.

    **SCREENSHOT HERE**

2. In the **Audio file** field, select the "Choose File" or "Browse" button to upload an audio file. The text of the button depends on your browser. Select an audio file from your file explorer. If you selected the wrong file, remove it by selecting the "Remove" button after the file uploads.

3. The *Name* of your recording is automatically generated from your filename. You can edit the name of your audio file by editing the text in the *Name* field.

    !!! tip
        Several of the media file names are automatically generated by Mukurtu, so it is helpful to have good file naming conventions.

    **SCREENSHOT HERE**

4. Select a **Sharing Setting**.
    - Select All or Any. 
    - All means that the item may only be shared with members belonging to ALL the protocols listed. This is the more restrictive setting. 
    - Any means the asset may be shared with members of ANY of the protocols listed. This is less restrictive.

5. Select cultural protocols to apply to the item by selecting the checkbox beside the protocols you want to apply.

    The following fields are not required.

6. In the *Identifier* field, provide a unique identifier for the audio file. 


## SoundCloud links

## Documents

## External embeds

## Images

## Remote video

## Video files

